---
layout: post
subtitle: My favorite programming language
tags: [cs, python]
comments: true
---
Python is my first programming language I've learned, because the introduction
course I used taught it.

The book I started reading is **Learn Python the hard way**, an easy to read
and a great way to begin understanding Python.

After that, I've worked in some Python projects with Flask, Scrapy, Django 
and other framework. But I never have chance to review and summary what I know
about this language.   
So today, I want to write down everything I feel like I 
understand about it.

## Data abstraction
___
Like any other language, Python has its own data types represent for the
objects we deal with.

There are 2 type of data in python: Primitive data and compound data.

*Primitive* can be understood as the most basic/unit data, like some building 
blocks that helps to build everything else. In python, integers, floats, 
booleans and strings are primitive ones.

Of course, this kind of primitive is different from *primitive* of C data type.
Integer, floats or any other kind of data type is all *objects*.  
It means when you assign a value *5* to an integer variable in C, it will store
the value *5* in binary in the RAM, it will take up 2 bytes in the memory for
that integer.

But in python, `x = 5` is not simple like that, x will be an *instance* of
object *Int* that will have many methods and attributes and will take up like
24 bytes in memory. To understand more about this, I need to read CPython.

However, we are working with python, so these *objects* still can be consider 
as primitive, because compare to other data types, they are the simplest.

*Compound* are list, tuple, set, dictionary.

**_Updating..._**